Cite This: J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 17015−17021

Article

pubs.acs.org/JACS

†,§

Chuandong Dou,*,†

Quadruply B←N-Fused Dibenzo-azaacene with High Electron
Aﬃnity and High Electron Mobility
Yang Min,
†
State Key Laboratory of Polymer Physics and Chemistry, Changchun Institute of Applied Chemistry, Chinese Academy of Sciences,
Changchun 130022, P.R. China
‡
Beijing National Laboratory for Molecular Science, Key Laboratory of Organic Solids, Institute of Chemistry, Chinese Academy of
Sciences, Beijing 100190, P.R. China
§
University of Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100049, P.R. China
*S Supporting Information

Huanli Dong,*,‡

and Jun Liu*,†

Dan Liu,

‡,§

ABSTRACT: For many years, organoboron compounds have
been expected to show excellent electron-injecting and -trans-
lowest unoccupied molecular
porting properties. However,
orbital (LUMO) energy levels (ELUMO) of B-containing π-
conjugated molecules are mostly higher than −4.0 eV and their
electron mobilities are usually less than 10−2 cm2 V−1 s−1. In this
work, we experimentally prove the remarkably high electron
aﬃnity and high electron mobility of organoboron compounds.
to incorporate multiple boron−nitrogen
Our
coordination bonds (B←N) into azaacenes. We synthesized
quadruply B←N-fused dibenzo-azaacene (QBNA) through one-
pot multifold borylation cyclization reaction. The incorporation of four B←N units greatly changes the electronic structures and
properties and signiﬁcantly downshifts the electronic energy levels of QBNA. QBNA shows a ELUMO of as low as −4.58 eV,
which is among the lowest for n-type organic semiconductors. Single-crystal organic ﬁeld-eﬀect transistors of QBNA display
unipolar n-type characteristic with an electron mobility of up to 1.60 cm2 V−1 s−1 together with excellent ambient stability. This
study thus provides a design strategy for high-performance n-type organic semiconductors and high electron-aﬃnity π-systems
based on organoboron chemistry.

strategy is

■ INTRODUCTION

A fundamental characteristic of π-electron systems and π-
conjugated materials is electron aﬃnity.1 High electron aﬃnity,
which is generally characterized by low-lying LUMO energy
leads to various intriguing properties of π-
level (ELUMO),
systems, such as easy electron injection, stable electron
transport, strong electron acceptor, and facilitated n-type
doping.2 Therefore, π-systems with high electron aﬃnity have
drawn much attention in both synthetic chemistry and organic
electronic materials. The general strategy to design molecules
with high electron aﬃnity is to incorporate the electron-
withdrawing units, such as imide unit, halogen atoms (Cl and
F), cyano group, and sp2-hybridized N atom (Figure 1a).3
However, as π-systems are intrinsically electron-rich,
is
challenging to develop π-conjugated molecules with extremely
high electron aﬃnity (low ELUMO).

A particular application of π-conjugated molecules with high
electron aﬃnity is as n-type semiconductors in organic ﬁeld-
eﬀect transistors (OFETs).4 High electron aﬃnity of n-type
organic semiconductors (ELUMO < ca. −4.0 eV) can enable
eﬃcient electron injection and good ambient stability of
OFETs. Integrating multiple electron-withdrawing units onto
large π-frameworks has been proved to be eﬃcient to produce
high-performance n-type organic semiconductors.5 However, it

it

Figure 1. (a) Examples of molecular segments with high electron
aﬃnity, which are based on imide unit, halogen atoms, cyano group,
sp2-hybridized N atom, and B←N unit. (b) Chemical structure of
quadruply B←N-fused dibenzo-azaacene (QBNA).

is very diﬃcult to design and synthesize them. Only a few n-
type organic semiconductors with high electron mobilities (μ
e)
and good stability have been developed, such as aromatic
diimides, tetraazapentacenes, benzodifurandione-based oligo-

Received: September 6, 2019
Published: October 2, 2019

© 2019 American Chemical Society

17015

DOI: 10.1021/jacs.9b09640
J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2019, 141, 17015−17021
